this is the largest olive oil processing
plant in the occupied West Bank 54
Palestinian Farms bring their harvests
here to be pressed into a product that
in a good year generates around $200
million for the Palestinian
economy nasar Abu Fara is the
CEO October and November is harest
season but Israel's war on Gaza has made
the challenges the industry has faced
for decades even
worse increased restrictions by the Army
there is a lot of big buffer zones for
security for the settlements that's one
side and the other side is the settlers
themselves threatening the farmers who
are going to their to their uh fields to
harvest each of these tanks contains
around 200,000 L of olive oil with a
market value of around
$300,000 around 80% of it is going to be
exported to markets in the US and Europe
and it gives you a sense of just how
important the olive oil industry is to
the Palestinian
economy an illegal Israeli
settlement a white fence cuts through a
Palestinian Olive Grove Israel has all
but stopped issuing permits to
Palestinian Farmers to harvest their
crops near the settlements this
year so it's a nervous drive for Jihad
hardan
he's too afraid to go up the hill and
harvest his
[Music]
crop we tried to go last Saturday but
four settlers protected by Israeli
soldiers intercepted us and threatened
to confiscate our tractor this year
there are no permits even if a permit is
issued is for one day and we can't do
anything in one
day weeds grow tall in many of the olive
Groves the threat threats from Israeli
settlers like these means many
Palestinian Farmers have been too scared
to cultivate their land for years but
this year the restrictions are even
worse the Palestinian agricultural
Ministry estimates around 40% of the
Harvest including olives grown in Gaza
will be lost because of the
war that's almost $100 million money for
Palestinian families that simply won't
appear
this morning there were settlers here
close to our land they beat us yesterday
we still don't know how we can Harvest
olives next to the settlement we're
afraid that they will beat us again or
that we could be
killed Palestinian own Groves cover
around 60% of the occupied West
Bank Farmers say Israel's war on Gaza is
damaging the olive industry like never
before with a large scale with
International exports threatened or
small
scale the hundreds of thousands of
Palestinians who have relied on these
trees for thousands of years to live
Char stford Al jazer Janine in the
occupied West
Bank make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer